# PhasedOutAI
## An AI for the card game 'Phased Out'
The following program is a project in my Year 1 in University of Melbourne. It is written in Python.

## Sections of the project
### Part 1 \(Q1\)
A function called phasedout_group_type that takes the following single argument \'group\' where \'group\' is a group of cards in the form of a list,each element of which is a 2-character string with the value \(drawn from \'234567890JQKA\'\) followed by the suit \(drawn from \'SHDC\'\).

What is returned is one of the following values, indicating the type of group of cards contained in group:
- 1: A set of three cards of the same value, e.g. ['2C', '2S', '2H'] represents a set of three Twos. Note that the set may include Wilds, but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the value. Note also that the sequence of the cards is not significant for this group type.
- 2: A set of 7 cards of the same suit, e.g. ['2C', '2C', '4C', 'KC', '9C', 'AH', 'JC'] represents a set of seven Clubs. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Hearts), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild card), which define the suit. Note also that the sequence of the cards is not significant for this group type.
- 3: A set of four cards of the same value, e.g. ['4H', '4S', 'AC', '4C'] represents a set of four Fours. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the value. Note also that the sequence of the cards is not significant for this group type.
- 4: A run of eight cards, e.g. ['4H', '5S', 'AC', '7C', '8H', 'AH', '0S', 'JC'] represents a run of eight cards. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs standing in for a Six and the Ace of Hearts standing in for a Nine), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards). Note also that the sequence of the cards is significant for this group type, and that ['4H', '5S', 'AC', '8H', '7C', 'AH', '0S', 'JC'], e.g., is not a valid run of eight, as it is not in sequence.
- 5: A run of four cards of the same colour, e.g. ['4H', '5D', 'AC', '7H'] represents a run of four Red cards. Note that the set may include Wilds (as we see in our example, with the Ace of Clubs standing in for a Red Six), but must include at least two "natural" cards (i.e. non-Wild cards), which define the colour. Note also that the sequence of the cards is significant for this group type, and that ['4H', '5D', '7H', 'AC'] is not a valid run of four cards of the same colour, as it is not in sequence.
- None: Any combination of cards which does not correspond to one of the above group types (e.g. ['4H', '5D', '7C', 'AC'].